.TH CPPKG\-CLI 1 "2026-05-13" "1.1.2" "C/C++ Package Manager"
.SH NAME
cppkg\-cli \- project\-local C/C++ dependency manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cppkg\-cli
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIcommand\fR [\fIargs\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
cppkg\-cli downloads C and C++ dependencies into the current project workspace.
It keeps headers, source projects, cache files, lock data, and metadata
under a local directory (default \fBcpp_libs/\fR) instead of installing
libraries into system directories.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B add
Add a dependency to cppkg.json, optionally installing it.
.TP
.B audit
Check installed packages against known vulnerabilities.
.TP
.B build
Configure and build a CMake project with cppkg include paths.
.TP
.B cache
Manage downloaded archive cache (subcommands: list, clean).
.TP
.B clean
Remove installed packages, cache, and lockfile.
.TP
.B cmake
Generate a cppkg.cmake integration helper.
.TP
.B compile
Compile C/C++ source files with cppkg include paths.
.TP
.B completion
Generate shell completion scripts for bash, zsh, or fish.
.TP
.B compiler
Manage compiler versions and Docker-backed compiler profiles.
.TP
.B config
Manage project-level cppkg settings (subcommands: get, set, list, remove).
.TP
.B create
Scaffold a new C/C++ library project.
.TP
.B get
Download a package from a Git repository or archive URL.
.TP
.B import
Import dependencies from vcpkg.json or conanfile.txt.
.TP
.B info
Show detailed information about an installed package.
.TP
.B init
Create a cppkg.json package manifest.
.TP
.B inspect
Inspect C/C++ source includes and report package needs.
.TP
.B install
Install dependencies declared in cppkg.json.
.TP
.B integrate
Modify CMakeLists.txt to auto-include cppkg headers and projects.
.TP
.B list
List installed packages (with --tree for dependency graph).
.TP
.B outdated
Check installed packages for newer available versions.
.TP
.B publish
Publish the project as a package archive to GitHub releases.
.TP
.B remove
Remove an installed package from the configured install directory.
.TP
.B search
Search GitHub for C/C++ libraries sorted by stars.
.TP
.B server
Start a local web server for browsing and downloading packages.
.TP
.B status
Check project health (manifest, lockfile, metadata, installed files).
.TP
.B update
Update installed packages to newer versions.
.TP
.B vendor
Copy installed packages into a vendor/ directory.
.TP
.B why
Show why a package is installed (dependency chain).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Output the version number.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help for a command.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I cppkg.json
Project dependency manifest.
.TP
.I cppkg-lock.json
Resolved archive URLs and integrity data.
.TP
.I cppkg.config.json
Optional project config (tokens, proxy, paths).
.TP
.I cpp_libs/
Default package data directory (configurable via cppkg.config.json).
.SH BUGS
Report issues at https://github.com/JeremyYu-cn/cppkg-cli/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Jeremy Yu
.SH LICENSE
MIT
